.\" Manpage for innoextract.
.\" Contact daniel@constexpr.org to correct errors or typos.
.TH innoextract 1 "2016-03-02" "1.5"
.SH NAME
innoextract - tool to extract installers created by Inno Setup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B innoextract
.RB [ \-\-extract ]
.RB [ \-\-lowercase ]
[options] [\fB\-\-\fP] \fIinstallers\fP ...

\fBinnoextract \-\-list\fP [options] [\fB\-\-\fP] \fIinstallers\fP ...

\fBinnoextract \-\-test\fP [options] [\fB\-\-\fP] \fIinstallers\fP ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBinnoextract\fP is a tool that can extract installer executables created by Inno Setup.
.PP
\fBinnoextract\fP will extract files from installers specified on the command line.
.PP
To extract a multi-part installer with external data files, only the executable (.exe) file needs to be given as an argument to \fBinnoextract\fP.
.SH OPTIONS SUMMARY
.PP
Here is a short summary of the options available in innoextract. Please refer to the detailed  documentation below for a complete description.
.TP
.B Generic options:
.nf
 \-h \-\-help               Show supported options
 \-v \-\-version            Print version information
    \-\-license            Show license information
.fi
.TP
.B Actions:
.nf
 \-t \-\-test               Only verify checksums, don't write anything
 \-e \-\-extract            Extract files (default action)
 \-l \-\-list               Only list files, don't write anything
    \-\-list\-languages     List languages supported by the installer
    \-\-gog\-game\-id        Determine the GOG.com game ID for this installer
.fi
.TP
.B Modifiers:
.nf
    \-\-collisions \fIACTION\fP  How to handle duplicate files
    \-\-default\-language   Default language for renaming
    \-\-dump               Dump contents without converting filenames
 \-L \-\-lowercase          Convert extracted filenames to lower-case
 \-T \-\-timestamps \fITZ\fP      Timezone for file times or "local" or "none"
 \-d \-\-output\-dir \fIDIR\fP     Extract files into the given directory
 \-g \-\-gog                Process additional archives from GOG.com installers
.fi
.TP
.B Filters:
.nf
 \-m \-\-exclude\-temp       Don't extract temporary files
    \-\-language \fILANG\fP      Extract only files for this language
    \-\-language\-only      Only extract language-specific files
 \-I \-\-include \fIEXPR\fP       Extract only files that match this path
.fi
.TP
.B Display options:
.nf
 \-q \-\-quiet              Output less information
 \-s \-\-silent             Output only error/warning information
 \-\-no\-warn\-unused        Don't warn on unused \fI.bin\fP files
 \-c \-\-color[=\fIENABLE\fP]     Enable/disable color output
 \-p \-\-progress[=\fIENABLE\fP]  Enable/disable the progress bar
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--\fP
Treat all arguments after this one as files, even if they begin with a dash.
.TP
\fB\-\-collisions\fP \fIACTION\fP
Inno Setup installers can contain duplicate files with the same name. This option tells innoextract what to do when such a collisions is encountered. Valid actions are:

.RS
.TP
"\fBoverwrite\fP"
Extract only one of the colliding files. The choice is done similar to how Inno Setup overwrites files during installation. This is the default.
.TP
"\fBrename\fP"
Rename files that would be overwritten using the "\fBoverwrite\fP" action by appending a suffix comprised of the file's language, the component it belongs to and/or a number to make the filename unique. The language suffix (if applicable) is also appended to the \fIdefault\fP file that would have been extracted with the "\fBoverwrite\fP" action.
.TP
"\fBrename-all\fP"
Rename all colliding files by appending a suffix comprised of the file's language, the component it belongs to and/or a number to make the filename unique. The complete suffix is appended to both files that would have been overwritten using the "\fBoverwrite\fP" action and to those that would have overwritten other files.
.TP
"\fBerror\fP"
Exit when a collision is detected.
.RE
.IP
.B Rename rules:

1. If the \fBcomponent\fP is not the same for all files in the collision set (all files with the same filename), "\fB#\fP" (without quotes) followed by the component id is appended to all files that are specific to a single component.

2. If the \fBlanguage\fP is not the same for all files in the collision set, "\fB@\fP" (without quotes) followed by the language id is appended to all files that are specific to a single component unless that language matches the default language specified by the \fB--default-language\fP. While the suffix is omitted for the default language, no numbered suffix is added in it's place unless needed to make the filename unique.

3. If no suffix was added by the previous steps, or if the filename is not yet unique, "\fB$\fP" (without quotes) followed by the lowest integer (starting at 0) to make the filename unique is appended.

With the "\fBrename\fP" action, steps 1 and 3 are only applied to files that would have been overwritten by the "\fBoverwrite\fP" action while "\fBrename-all\fP" applies them to all files in the collision set.
.TP
\fB\-\-default\-language\fP \fILANG\fP
Set a language as the default.

With \fB\-\-collisions\=overwrite\fP (the default) this will change the choice of which file to keep to always prefer the given language. In effect, \fB\-\-default\-language\fP behaves almost like \fB\-\-language\fP, except that files are extracted for all languages if they have different names.

When using the \fB\-\-collisions\=rename\fP option, \fB\-\-default\-language\fP chooses a language for which the files should keep the original name if possible.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP, \fB\-\-color\fP[=\fIENABLE\fP]
By default
.B innoextract
will try to detect if the terminal supports shell escape codes and enable or disable color output accordingly. Specifically, colors will be enabled if both \fBstdout\fP and \fBstderr\fP point to a TTY and the \fBTERM\fP environment variable is not set to "\fBdumb\fP". Pass \fB1\fP or \fBtrue\fP to \fB\-\-color\fP to force color output. Pass \fB0\fP or \fBfalse\fP to never output color codes.
.TP
\fB\-\-dump\fP
Don't convert Windows paths to UNIX paths and don't substitute variables in paths.
.TP
\fB\-m\fP, \fB\-\-exclude\-temp\fP
Don't extract files that would have been deleted at the end of the install process. Such files are marked with [temp] in the file listing.

This option takes precedence over \fB\-\-include\fP and \fB\-\-language\fP: temporary files are never extracted when using the \fB\-\-exclude\-temp\fP, even if they match the selected language or include expressions.
.TP
\fB\-e\fP, \fB\-\-extract\fP
Extract all files to the current directory. This action is enabled by default, unless either \fB\-\-list\fP or \fB\-\-extract\fP is specified. You may only specify one of \fB\-\-extract\fP and \fB\-\-test\fP.
.TP
\fB\-g\fP, \fB\-\-gog\fP
Try to process additional .bin files that have the same basename as the setup but are not actually part of the Inno Setup installer. This is the case for newer multi-part GOG.com installers where these .bin files are RAR archives, potential encrypted with the MD5 checksum of the game ID (see the \fB\-\-gog\-game\-id\fP option).

Extracting these RAR archives requires rar, unrar or lsar/unar command-line utilities to be in the PATH.

The \fB\-\-list\fP, \fB\-\-test\fP, \fB\-\-extract\fP and \fB\-\-output\-dir\fP options are passed along to unrar/unar, but other options may be ignored for the RAR files. For multi-part RAR archives, the \fB\-\-test\fP requires a writable output directory for temporary files.

Note that is option is geared towards GOG.com installers. Other installers may come be bundled with different extraneous \fI.bin\fP which this option might not be able to handle.
.TP
\fB\-\-gog\-game\-id\fP
Determine the ID used by GOG.com for the game contained in this installer. This will only work with Galaxy-ready GOG.com installers.

This option can be combined with \fB\-\-silent\fP to print only the game ID without additional syntax that would make consumption by other scripts harder.

The \fB\-\-gog\-game\-id\fP action can be combined with \fB\-\-list\fP, \fB\-\-test\fP, \fB\-\-extract\fP and/or \fB\-\-list\-languages\fP. If \fB\-\-silent\fP and \fB\-\-gog\-game\-id\fP are combined with \fB\-\-list\fP and/or \fB\-\-list\-languages\fP, the game ID (or an empty line) will be printed on it's own line before the file list but after the language list.

For newer multi-part GOG.com installers the \fI.bin\fP files are not part of the Inno Setup installer but instead are RAR archives. Some of these RAR files are encrypted, with the password being the MD5 checksum of the game ID:

  \fBinnoextract \-\-gog\-game\-id --silent\fP \fIsetup_....exe\fP | \fBmd5sum\fP | \fBcut \-d\fP ' ' \fB\-f\fP 1
.TP
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP
Show a list of the supported options.
.TP
\fB\-I\fP, \fB\-\-include\fP \fIEXPR\fP
If this option is specified, innoextract will only process files whose path matches \fIEXPR\fP. The expression can be either a single path component (a file or directory name) or a series of successive path components joined by the OS path separator (\\ on Windows, / elsewhere).

The expression is always matched against one or more full path components. Filtering by parts of filenames is currently not supported. Matching is done case-insensitively.

\fIEXPR\fP may contain one leading path separator, in which case the rest of the expression is matched against the start of the path. Otherwise, the expression is matched against any part of the path.

The \fB\-\-include\fP option may be repeated in order allow files matching against one of multiple patterns. If \fB\-\-include\fP is not used, all files are processed.
.TP
\fB\-\-language\fP \fILANG\fP
Extract only language-independent files and files for the given language. By default all files are extracted.

To also skip language-independent files, combine this option with \fB\-\-language\-only\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-language\-only\fP
Only extract files that are language-specific.

This option can be combined with \fB\-\-language\fP to only extract the files of a specific language.
.TP
\fB\-\-license\fP
Show license information.
.TP
\fB\-l\fP, \fB\-\-list\fP
List files contained in the installer but don't extract anything.

This option can be combined with \fB\-\-silent\fP to print only the names of the contained files (one per line) without additional syntax that would make consumption by other scripts harder.

The \fB\-\-list\fP action can be combined with \fB\-\-test\fP, \fB\-\-extract\fP, \fB\-\-list\-languages\fP and/or \fB\-\-gog\-game\-id\fP to display the names of the files as they are extracted even with \fB\-\-silent\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-list\-languages\fP
List languages supported by the installer.

This option can be combined with \fB\-\-silent\fP to print only the identifiers of the languages (one per line) followed by a space and then the language name, without additional syntax that would make consumption by other scripts harder.

The \fB\-\-list\-languages\fP action can be combined with \fB\-\-list\fP, \fB\-\-test\fP, \fB\-\-extract\fP and/or \fB\-\-gog\-game\-id\fP to display the available languages before doing anything else. If \fB\-\-silent\fP and \fB\-\-list\-languages\fP are combined with \fB\-\-list\fP and/or \fB\-\-gog\-game\-id\fP, the languages list will be terminated with an empty line and will precede both the game ID and files list.
.TP
\fB\-L\fP, \fB\-\-lowercase\fP
Convert filenames stored in the installer to lower-case before extracting.
.TP
\fB\-d\fP, \fB\-\-output\-dir\fP \fIDIR\fP
Extract all files into the given directory. By default, \fBinnoextract\fP will extract all files to the current directory.

If the specified directory does not exist, it will be created. However, the parent directory must exist or extracting will fail.
.TP
\fB\-p\fP, \fB\-\-progress\fP[=\fIENABLE\fP]
By default \fBinnoextract\fP will try to detect if the terminal supports shell escape codes and enable or disable progress bar output accordingly. Pass \fB1\fP or \fBtrue\fP to \fB\-\-progress\fP to force progress bar output. Pass \fB0\fP or \fBfalse\fP to never show a progress bar.
.TP
\fB\-q\fP, \fB\-\-quiet\fP
Less verbose output.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP, \fB\-\-silent\fP
Don't output anything except errors and warnings unless explicitly requested.

This option can be combined with \fB\-\-list\fP to print only the names of the contained files (one per line) without additional syntax that would make consumption by other scripts harder.
.TP
\fB\-t\fP, \fB\-\-test\fP
Test archive integrity but don't write any output files. You may only specify one of \fB\-\-extract\fP and \fB\-\-test\fP.
.TP
\fB\-T\fP, \fB\-\-timestamps\fP \fITZ\fP
Inno Setup installers can contain timestamps in both UTC and 'local' timezones.

The \fB\-\-timestamps\fP option specifies what timezone should be used to adjust these 'local' file times.

Valid values are those accepted by \fBtzset\fP in the \fBTZ\fP environment variable, except with the direction of the time offset reversed: both \fB\-T CET\fP and \fB\-T GMT+1\fP will (when DST is in effect) give the same result.

Besides timezones, two special values are accepted:

.RS
.HP
"\fBnone\fP"
Don't preserve file times for extracted files, both for UTC and 'local' timestamps. The file times wil be left the way the OS set them when creating the output files.
.HP
"\fBlocal\fP"
Use the system timezone for 'local' timestamps. This is the normal Inno Setup behavior, and can be used together with the \fBTZ\fP environment variable.
.RE
.IP

The default value for this option is \fBUTC\fP, causing innoextract to not adjust 'local' file times. File times marked as UTC in the Inno Setup file will never be adjusted no matter what \fB\-\-timestamps\fP is set to.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-version\fP
Print the \fBinnoextract\fP version number and supported Inno Setup versions.

If combined with the \fB\-\-silent\fP option, only the version \fInumber\fP is printed. Otherwise, the output will contain the name (innoextract) followed by the version number on the first line, and, unless the \fB\-\-quiet\fP options is specified, the range of suuported Inno Setup installer versions on the second line.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-warn\-unused\fP
By default, innoextract will print a warning if it encounters \fI.bin\fP files that look like they could be part of the setup but are not used. This option disables that warning.
.SH EXIT VALUES
.PP
.IP \fB0\fP
Success
.IP \fB1\fP
Syntax or usage error
.IP \fB2+\fP
Broken or unsupported setup file, or input/output error
.SH LIMITATIONS
There is no support for extracting individual components and limited support for filtering by name.

Included scripts and checks are not executed.

The mapping from Inno Setup variables like the application directory to subdirectories is hard-coded.

Names for data slice/disk files in multi-file installers must follow the standard naming scheme.

Encrypted installers are not supported.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcabextract\fP(1), \fBunar\fP(1), \fBunrar\fP(1), \fBunshield\fP(1), \fBtzset\fP(3)
.SH BUGS
.PP
Please report bugs to http://innoextract.constexpr.org/issues.
.SH CREDITS
.PP
\fBinnoextract\fP is distributed under the zlib/libpng license.  See the LICENSE file for details.
.PP
A website is available at http://constexpr.org/innoextract/.
.PP
This program uses the excellent lzma/xz decompression library written by Lasse Collin.
.SH AUTHOR
Daniel Scharrer (daniel@constexpr.org)
